for the first time since the war between
Israel and Hamas began people have been
allowed to leave the besieged territory
of Gaza they included dozens of injured
Palestinians and hundreds of foreign
Nationals they've left by the Rafa
Crossing on the border with Egypt and
the injured were treated at field
hospitals there the foreign office says
the first British Nationals have crossed
and that more will be taken out in
stages over the coming days people
who've been trapped in Gaza for weeks
began crossing the border from late
morning after the territory was closed
off by Israel when Hamas attacked it
over 3 weeks ago Hamas is classed as a
terrorist organization by the UK
government and in Northern Gaza there's
been another air strike on jabalia a day
after an Israeli attack caused heavy
casualties at the refugee camp there our
International editor Jeremy boen has
asked first report which contains
material that you may find
upsetting at last the gates of the Rafa
Crossing were opened some foreign
citizens were allowed to leave Gaza for
Egypt for the first time since Israel
imposed its
Siege convoys of Aid trucks are moving
into Gaza though not nearly as many as
the UN and Aid agency say
unnecessary ambulances went in for the
seriously
wounded in jabalia at the opposite end
of the Gaza Strip more Israeli raids
this time they said the target was a
command center the UN said gaza's
civilians were being starved traumatized
and bombed to
death on the other side of the Border
wire Israelis are still in shock over
the 7th of October
attacks this is kibutz narim directly
facing
Gaza for the first first time Adele Rema
was back to look and to grab a few
things her old hopes of peace with her
neighbors in Gaza Gone
Forever stopping anything like this
happening again is powering Israel's
determination to see this fight through
to the end Adele showed me the place
where her son-in-law saved her three
granddaughters all under the age of 10
so tell me what happened here that that
is their safe room and that is where he
shot the terrorists
as kibutz narim was under attack Hamas
radio messages were intercepted and the
Israeli Army gave us this
[Music]
excert
[Applause]
the fence has been fixed Israel's
security has not so there's no doubt
there was a lot of
complacency about the risks that Hamas
posed to Israel and after the war
there's going to be an inquiry but even
now the Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu is under a lot of pressure
about his
responsibility for the security land es
that led to Hamas breaching the Border I
took my pistol that day Noam tibon a
retired Israeli General drove down from
Tel Aviv to rescue his son's family from
Hamas as the Hamas gunman surged forward
tibon's mission was successful he took a
rifle from a dead Israeli soldier and
with others fought his way
in I I saw one terrorist I pointed on
him I killed him I saw another one I
think I wound him or killed him so who
do you hold responsible for what
happened this is the biggest
failure in the history of the state of
Israel it was a military failure it was
an intelligence
failure and it was the failure of the
government but I think that the one that
really in charge and all the blame is on
him is prime minister Benjamin
nanyu this was the funeral of
20-year-old Lavi lipic killed in comb in
Gaza Israelis are behind their troops
but increasingly they want to know how
so much went wrong and the pressure on
the prime minister is going to
increase Jeremy Bo in BBC News in
southern Israel